# Brobbot XMPP

Connects Brobbot to your XMPP network 

## Setup

Install in your [brobbot-instance](https://npmjs.org/package/brobbot-instance):

	npm install --save brobbot-xmpp

Use the `-a` switch to specify the adapter:

```bash
./index.sh -a xmpp
```

## Configuration

There are a few configuration values you can use when getting brobbot-xmpp
running. The XMPP adapter requires only 3 (5 if you need specify server
and port) environment variables to be set to able to use it.

* `BROBBOT_XMPP_USERNAME`
* `BROBBOT_XMPP_PASSWORD`
* `BROBBOT_XMPP_ROOMS`

Optional:

* `BROBBOT_XMPP_HOST` The host name you want to connect to if its different than
  what is in the username jid.
* `BROBBOT_XMPP_PORT` The port to connect to on the jabber server.
* `BROBBOT_XMPP_LEGACYSSL` Set to 1 to enable legacy SSL port.  This requires
  the host to be defined.
* `BROBBOT_XMPP_PREFERRED_SASL_MECHANISM` Used to change the encoding used for SASL.
* `BROBBOT_XMPP_DISALLOW_TLS` Prevent upgrading the connection to a secure one via TLS.

`BROBBOT_XMPP_ROOMS` can be a comma separated list of rooms to join.  If
your rooms require passwords you should use the `jid:password` syntax.
Room passwords cannot contain `,`. Room names must be the full jid of the 
room for example `dev@conference.jabber.example.org`.

## Group chat vs private JID

The jabber protocol does not broadcast real user JID in groupchat presence
stanzas unless the server/chat room is configured to do so.

If you need to send private chat in response to a groupchat message, use
brobbot's send method with the groupchat jid and `envelope.user.type = 'direct'`.
brobbot-xmpp will then automatically resolve the JID to a private
chat JID, and private message the sender.

If you need to get the private chat JID, you can use
`msg.envelope.user.privateChatJid` where `msg` is the parameter of brobbot's
`route` callback.

Example:

```javascript
robot.respond(/talk to me$/i, function(msg) {
  // Simply reply
  msg.reply("Hello " + msg.envelope.user.name + ". Your private JID is " + msg.envelope.user.privateChatJID);
});

robot.respond(/talk to me in private$/i, function(msg) {
  msg.envelope.user.type = 'direct';
  msg.send("Hey " + msg.envelope.user.name + "! You told me in room " + msg.envelope.user.room + " to talk to you.");
});
```
